# IoV_based_smart_vehicle_management_system

Internet of Vehicles (IoV) technology refers to dynamic mobile communication systems that communicate between vehicles and public networks using V2V (vehicle-to-vehicle), V2R (vehicle-to-road), V2H (vehicle-to-human) and V2S (vehicle-to-sensor) interactions. This technology provides information sharing and collecting of information on vehicular network, roads and their surroundings. Moreover, it features the processing, computing, sharing and secure release of information onto vehicular information platforms. Internet of Things (IoT) is a world-wide network connecting all the smart objects together. It is the way in which all things are enabled to talk with each other. Whenever those smart things being connected over internet are refers to only vehicles, then it is called as Internet of Vehicles (IoV). Continuous increase in urban population and rapidly expanding cities, make vehicle ownership increase at an exponential rate. Hence, Smart vehicle management system needs to be incorporated in our day to day life. This new technology on Internet of Things is driving the evolution of conventional Vehicle Networks into the Internet of Vehicles (IoV). 

This article describes the IoV communication technology to control and monitor in vehicle prototype based device as connected sensors. In addition to providing an internet of things (IoT) platform over the mobile application platform.
The Ideal purpose of the work is to develop a signal generating kit which locks/unlocks the car doors anywhere through tablet or smart phone. Moreover, we can monitor parameters through smart phone application, the monitoring of tyre air pressure and fuel level through respective sensors network.
Haedwares used: GSM SIM900,Arduino nano, BMP sensor,Potentiometric based fuel sensor,Car Actutor,power supply and battery
Software: Arduino IDE,Proteus simulation & Android application.
